# Redesigning Blackout
```
LORD UXBRIDGE: By God, sir, I've lost my leg!
WELLINGTON: By God, sir, so you have!
```


# So what exactly is my design being vetted on?

The current situation of trying to naively turn domain entities obviously classes isn't working, so, back to the drawing board. 

Assessment criteria:

Entity modelling
- "Appropriate" entities modelled as classes? or is it just data grouped arbitrarily
- Do inheritance relationships make sense?
- Have interfaces vs. abstract classes been used appropriately
- Aggregation/composition correct

Coupling & cohesion
- Good cohesion
- Minimises coupling (c.f. after discussion with Carl in week 4, the duck test for coupling is: _do I have to make changes everywhere if I want to make one change?_; it's not simply a case of objects having references to other objects)
- "Has data been encapuslated appropriately"
- Delegation + abstraction of functionality to different classes
- No redundant or data classes
- Single responsibility of classes
- Whether or not logic is split up or concentrated in Blackout (seems like they _favour_ it being split up)
- Not violating Law of Demeter, not violating Liskov Substitution Principle. (I think we can just _avoid_ violating LSP by not using inheritance at all)

### General thoughts. 
I'm happy to spend another six hours on this, as well as Sunday, Tuesday. However I also have 3311 to do, and I am also getting woefully tired of working on this assignment. 

> Will need to make another post to point out violations of design principles in my current design. 

I'd like to point out we're just making a backend. _In no spot in the spec_ is it required that we _have_ a one-to-one mapping between domain entities and my classes. In fact I would argue such a class is not single responsibility. It simply needs to _exhibit_ such external behaviour, but how **I** choose to register this information in my design. 

I will look at classes as simply containers for organising my code/namespaces and try to be more data-centric, because this is what makes sense to me. 

> But then I will need to try to make sure that it's still in the spirit of OOP otherwise I will be penalised. 

## My strategy
Let's start with figuring out what state there is. Somehow we have to draw walls around state in different parts of the program, but clearly whatever walls I was drawing before was _not_ working.

_Then_ I'll look through all the OOP principles and try to make it more "in the spirit of OOP". 

# Program state and distributing it into objects
> Divide et impera

Basically the way I'm looking
- State that has to be updated every tick of the simulation (e.g. entity X goes to new position)
- "Statistics" or computations on that state. (e.g. entity X is visible to entity Y)

## Constraints
### Constants/constraints
> Reminder that these are just entities in domain model, and not necessarily classes in implementation:

Entity linear velocity: 
- `Devices`: "do not move" (until task 3)
- `StandardSatellite`: -2500 
- `TeleportingSatellite`: 1000
- `RelaySatellite`: 1500

Entity sending range constraints:
- `Handheld`: 50000
- `LaptopDevice`: 100000
- `DesktopDevice`: 200000
- `StandardSatellite`: 150000
- `TeleportingSatellite`: 200000
- `RelaySatellite`: 300000

Entity storage constraints: 
- `Devices`: "stores infinite number of files" 
- `StandardSatellite`: 80 bytes, 3 files max 
- `TeleportingSatellite`: 200 bytes, no file count constraint
- `RelaySatellite`: "cannot store any files" 

Entity transmission constraints
- `Devices`: "rate limited by bandwidth of satellite" 
- `StandardSatellite`: 1 down, 1 up
- `TeleportingSatellite`: 15 down, 1 up
- `RelaySatellite`: "no bandwidth limits"



### Behavioural constraints
Devices cannot move. (unless you also do Task 3)




### Entity interaction constraints
Devices can upload/download to Satellites

Satellites can upload/download to Devices
Satellites can upload/downloda to other Satellites


## State
> Things that change every tick

Entity location: 
- position/angle
- height (constant if satellite)

Entity file server: 
- (Devices only): may have to add a complete file


### Things I need to compute each tick from state 
- new position 
- new uploading bandwidth (`maxUp // uploading` or all of it)
- new downloading bandwidth (`maxDown // downloading` or all of it)
    - whether entity `X` can send to entity `Y` (depends on position + communicability constraints)
- uploading tasks -> send them off
- downloading tasks -> send them off

### Behavioural/interaction constraints

### Cross cutting concerns
> This is the thing the tree-like structure OOP forces you into just _seriously cannot cope with_. 


_Teleporting behaviour for_ `TeleportingSatellite`: motion subsystem interferes with transmission subsystem

_Transmission:_ involves two entities in the system. 


# Graphs: 
- visbility graph
- communicability graph 
- graph of entity compatibility

# Narrowing down transmission 
Data involved in registering a transmission 
- server has resources 
    - has complete file (i.e. not nonexistent or partial)
    - has uploading bandwidth
- client has resources ()
    - does not already have file (either complete or partial)
    - has downloading bandwidth
    - has memory to download whole file
    - won't violate file cap
- server-client are of compatible types

Data involved in a transmission: 
- source file
- destination file
- where we are up to sending re: source file (a file pointer?)
- who is sending file
- who is receiving file
- server upload bandwidth
- client download bandwidth
    - total transmittied bytes min of both
- whether client is in server's sending range

Data involved in closing a transmission
- is file complete? (if yes, need to close connection + clean up files)
- is client within server's range (if no, need to close connection + clean up files)
- (Teleporting causes some strange behaviour)


```java
/*Complete redesign of everything*/

BlackoutController 
- List<String, Node> nodes; 



```



